[singing voice] Aniplex.
[tense music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[grunts]
Okay, this is far enough.
Oh?
You don't need an escort?
Like I need an escort
who wants to kill me.
[Archer] That's better.
Well, you know enough
to sense hostility.
You've got that going for you.
I will not attack you
while walking you home,
according to Rin's instructions.
[Mashiro Ayano's "Ideal White"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Mashiro singing in Japanese]
[Shirou] Oh, is that so?
If you wanna go at it,
I'll be happy
to take you on right now!
I may be a novice,
but I'm still a mage.
Got it?
Don't be absurd.
[Archer] A mage who doesn't reek
of blood
is worse than a mere novice.
[grunts]
[Shirou] You're saying that
I don't have the smell
of blood on me?
[Archer] Mages are creatures
who become cold‐blooded
in order to achieve their goals.
Try to emulate Rin Tohsaka.
She might have
a soft spot or two,
but she has the proper mindset
in spite of her age.
[scoffs]
Good for you,
that Tohsaka's your master.
She's your best shot
at getting the Holy Grail.
That malevolent treasure chest
that's able
to grant human wishes?
I've no interest
in such a thing.
Uh, what do you mean,
"No interest?"
But I thought servants fight
in the war
to have a wish fulfilled
that they didn't achieve
in life, right?
Hardly.
We have no choice.
We just end up here.
Servants are not permitted
to have free will.
Your Saber is probably
the only one of us
who answers the call
of her own volition.
Saber's the only one?
[Archer] That's right.
Heroic spirits are summoned
by the will of another.
We're no more
than disposable tools.
Do you honestly believe that
in our heart of hearts
we wish to be thrust into
a time not our own
to help humans?
[Shirou] Well...
Listen.
Servants are just instruments.
We're summoned to clean up
the messes humans make
and then simply disappear.
[gasps]
We're nothing
but cleaners stripped
of our will and made
to serve humans forever.
[Archer] That's what
heroic spirits are:
convenient beings
called guardians.
[Shirou] Instruments?
What are you talking about?
Saber's a person,
just like me.
She can do whatever she wants
to do,
and I'm sure she made lots
of choices since
she appeared here!
Perhaps.
When provided
with the human‐like shell
of a servant,
heroic spirits can regain some
of their humanity.
Along with old obsessions.
And ancient regrets as well.
Regrets?
[Archer] Try to picture it.
How would you feel if you died
with unfinished business,
only to find yourself
brought back
to another time by a human
to do his bidding?
All in the name of seeking
the coveted Holy Grail.
I still don't understand.
Why aren't you interested
in the Grail?
I had no dream in my life
that went unfulfilled.
What?
I accomplished my dream
then died
and became a heroic spirit.
I have no wish
that I need granted.
[Shirou] I'm home.
There you are, Shirou.
Welcome back.
Hey.
Welcome back home.
Saber was really,
really mad at you.
I bet.
[grunts]
There's news on Mitsuzuri.
She was found
a little while ago.
Great.
Thank goodness
someone found her.
Wait a second.
How'd you know about that?
[Taiga] Oh, Issei asked me
to tell you about her.
He said her memory's jumbled up
a bit,
but there's no visible injuries,
and her condition
isn't life‐threatening.
That's really great news,
isn't it?
It is.
[grunts]
[Shirou] Sakura,
can I ask you something?
Huh?
[Shirou] It's not safe
out there,
so I want you to spend
the night here again.
Or if you want,
could you just keep staying here
for a little while?
I'm sorry.
I'm putting you on the spot.
No.
I'll, um,
take you up on your offer.
[Saber] Shirou!
You gave me your word that you
would return before sunset!
Yeah, I'm sorry.
You have every right
to yell at me.
But before that,
would you mind if we talked
a little about
our future strategy?
[grunts]
[Shirou] There
was a third master at school.
So Tohsaka and I agreed
to a truce until we identify
this other master and figure out
what to do about him.
[exhales sharply]
[Shirou] Are you opposed
to working with her
like that for a while?
Not at all.
I merely wish
that you would talk
to me before making such
an important decision.
[gasps]
Uh, sorry.
Just to be sure,
the truce with Tohsaka
will be over after
the master at your school
is defeated.
[Saber] Is that correct?
Correct.
[Saber] As long
as you understand that,
I have no objection.
Let us work with Rin so that you
may garner
more combat experience.
Saber, you need the Grail
for something important, right?
[Saber] Yes.
So what are you gonna do
if we win it?
Does this question have
any bearing at all
on our future strategy?
No, I just‐‐
Did something happen today,
Shirou?
For get it.
It's nothing, really.
[Saber] I would like
to offer a suggestion.
[gasps]
[Saber] From now on
you should build up experience
through hands‐on training.
Yeah, you're right.
Thank you for your help.
[chuckles]
‐ [Shinji] Hey, Emiya!
‐ [gasps]
Hear about Mitsuzuri?
Pretty weird.
Yeah, I found out all about it
at the dojo this morning.
[Shinji] Did you know she
was found in New City?
In a back alley,
at that.
I hear that her eyes
were glazed over
and her uniform was in tatters.
I really don't know what
could have happened.
I mean, how did
the little stuck‐up
end up getting ditched
in an alley like that?
As a friend,
I must admit,
I'm more than a little‐‐
‐ Shinji!
‐ Hmm?
If looks could kill.
Well, I'm just kidding,
of course.
It's only a rumor, right?
But after yesterday,
this news has been talked about
a lot among all
the first year students.
You were the last person
to see Mitsuzuri, weren't you?
Yeah, but all we did
was make idle chitchat.
‐ [Shirou grunts]
‐ [grunts]
Be careful
with your speculations.
Don't throw out
false accusations
or you'll regret it, Emiya.
[school bell ringing]
[both grunting]
[Rin] How do you identify
a master?
[Shirou] If you
were standing close
to another master,
would you be able to tell?
I suppose,
but only if he hasn't
done anything
to conceal himself.
[Rin] A master is a mage
so all you have to do
is follow their mana
and you can find them easily.
But that would only
give you suspects.
Nothing more.
[grunts]
What are you sensing?
Trace on, now.
[magical whirring]
[Rin] There really is one there.
I'm impressed.
That's a sigil, right?
Yes.
You know, Emiya,
for a guy with no sensitivity
to mana,
you can sense
something off about
a place fast.
[magical whooshing]
Wait, was that a compliment?
[Shirou] When all this
first started,
you didn't think I was a mage,
either, remember?
What was up with that?
[Rin] Really?
Do you want me to spell it out?
[Shirou] No, forget it.
I can pretty much guess.
[Rin] Clever boy.
Oh, and it's exactly
what you think.
Mages only recognize people
that exhibit a minimum level
of mana as actually
being mages themselves.
[Shirou] I figured it
would be something like that.
[Rin] Well, that should be most
of the active sigils.
[Shirou] You were able
to disable
the bounded field, then?
No, the field itself
is already in place,
so all I did was weaken it.
[Rin] Look at the kind
of field this guy put up.
He won't stand by and do nothing
when he discovers this.
So if I'm guessing right,
he'll reveal himself
by tomorrow.
Oh?
He will, will he?
[footsteps approaching]
[gasps]
So anyway...
I have other business
to tend to,
so I'm heading home.
[Rin] There are a number
of supplies
I'm going to need
to buy for tomorrow.
You should head home
early today, too, Emiya.
Hey, wait a minute.
Are you saying you're worried
about me, Tohsaka?
What?
No, I‐‐I'm not!
You and I have an alliance now
so if you just go off
and do as you please,
it'll mess up all my plans.
That's all that was.
I just said it
to be perfectly clear.
[Rin scoffs]
[Shinji] Heading home after
a long, weary day, Emiya?
Sigil erasing can be tedious.
[chuckles]
What did you say?
The bounded field that you've
been erasing by brute force
is an insurance policy
I set up for myself.
Shinji.
Why am I not surprised?
[Shinji] Oh,
don't be so on edge, Emiya.
Just like you,
I don't have any mana
but they're making me a master.
What's the story
with that field?
I told you.
It's just a little insurance.
Are you the one who attacked
that girl yesterday?
Fact is,
I didn't have any choice.
My servant did that stuff
all on her own.
[Shinji] Oh, come on, Emiya.
You have to believe me.
The last thing I wanna do
is fight anybody.
[grunts]
All right, then.
[Shinji] Wait a minute, Emiya.
Will you team up with me?
We Matous have been
a mage family
for a very long time.
What?
You have?
Of course.
It's no surprise
that you wouldn't know
since you're not a proper mage.
If you don't believe me,
ask your friend Tohsaka.
[Shirou] Shinji,
does Sakura know
about what you are?
Mage families only hand down
their secret arts
to the eldest son.
As if anybody
would teach sorcery
to that dunce of a girl.
So, what do you say?
If you aren't going
to do anything,
I have no reason
to work with you, right?
Oh?
So you won't work with me, huh?
Emiya, be serious.
Are you actually going
to try to win?
[gasps]
[Shinji] I see.
If so,
I can't leave my sister
in the home of someone
who's going to keep taking part
in this slaughter.
Fine.
I'll tell Sakura myself
when I get home.
[Shinji] Okay.
It's so nice that you're such
a caring friend to her.
What we discussed here
is between you and me,
understand?
The reason I decided
to come clean with you
was out of respect
for our friendship.
Yeah, I'll keep quiet.
[Saber] Wide open!
[blow lands]
[groaning]
[breathing heavily]
[groans]
Okay, one more match.
[Shirou groans]
Ow.
Damn it, Saber.
When she decides
to do something,
she doesn't hold back.
Trace on.
[groans]
[exhales]
Aw, crap.
I gotta concentrate!
‐ [Saber] Shirou?
‐ [gasps]
[Shirou] Yeah, what is it?
Nothing except that
I sensed mana in here.
You were training?
Yeah.
Basically I come here
and do this every day.
May I enter and join you?
Okay.
[Saber] I understand
that your magical specialty
is strengthening.
[Shirou] It's the only thing
I can do,
so I'm not sure if "specialty"
is the right word.
[Saber] I am curious.
How does one train
in the art of strengthening?
[Shirou] Well, strengthening
isn't just about
simply increasing
something's toughness.
It also includes increasing
its effectiveness.
For this rock,
it's making it harder.
For that light bulb,
it's about making
it shine brighter.
I visualize the object's
component materials
and then concentrate as hard
as I can
and focus all of my mana
to pass through it.
I see.
[grunts]
Uh, um, it's better to show
than to tell.
I'll try it on this rock.
[Shirou] Trace on.
Tracing basic structure.
Tracing component materials.
Fundamental structure altering.
Now strengthening
component materials!
[groaning]
Damn!
Another bust.
Actually, my success rate
is pretty low.
Shirou, recently I have sensed
that your concentration
has been somewhat lacking.
Oh, um, really?
Well, actually,
I have a lot better luck working
with bladed tools
like this one here.
[gasps]
[Saber] I can see that
my being here is a distraction.
Please try not to push yourself
too hard.
[Shirou] I won't.
Goodnight.
[door creaks closed]
[inhales and exhales sharply]
[tense music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[electric sparking]
[water splashing]
[gasps]
[Shirou] Where am I?
Ryuudou Temple?
‐ [Caster] That's right.
‐ [gasps]
[chuckles]
[gasps]
[snoring]
[groans]
Roasted cod roe.
[snoring]
[door creaks open]
Shirou!
[grunts]
The caster‐class servant!
Yes, indeed I am,
Saber's master.
[wincing]
[Caster] Do not bother.
Once in effect,
a spell cannot simply
be washed away
with the water of mana.
Especially by the flow
from magic circuits
as feeble as yours are.
Meaning that I was easy
to summon here.
[Caster] Meaning that out
of all the masters,
you are the weakest by far.
So what now?
You're gonna kill me?
You can relax.
If I killed you I wouldn't
be able to drain you
of your mana.
I killed a few before I had
a feel for it,
but now I can collect just
the right amount.
[Shirou] You're the one behind
all those coma cases?
I'm surprised you didn't know.
Caster‐class servants have
the prerogative
to establish a position.
[Caster] By building myself
a temple here,
I've protected myself from you.
You can see it,
can't you?
The mana of hundreds
of that rabble
of humans out there
is stored densely in this soil.
Caster!
Damn you!
You involved outsiders!
How could you do that?
[Caster] Everyone
in this city belongs to me.
No way!
Well, it's been nice,
but I think we've chatted
for long enough.
[Caster] Now let's get
those command seals off.
[gasps]
[buzzing]
[shudders]
[Saber] A bounded field
that repels the very concept
of heroic spirits?
[scoffs]
[footsteps approaching]
[gasps]
If I may ask,
what class of servant are you?
I am Kojirou Sasaki,
assassin‐class servant.
Huh?
It is only natural
to name oneself before combat.
When an opponent does so,
I am honor‐bound as a knight
to do the same.
[Saber] But once I have,
you must withdraw.
‐ My name is‐‐
‐ No matter.
[Assassin] My blade
will tell me all that I need
to know of my enemy.
If you wish to pass through here
then you must force your way in.
[Shirou] You wanna take
my command seals?
‐ [Caster] That's right.
‐ [winces]
[Caster] I'll transplant them
into my master.
Then he will have control
of Saber
and she can deal
with that nuisance
of a Berserker.
Oh, and by the way,
removing command seals
also means extracting all
your magic circuits.
[groaning]
[winces]
[Caster] That's a good boy.
I do enjoy it more
when you put up a good struggle.
[gasps]
[electric sparking]
[screaming]
[grunts]
[groans]
[Archer scoffs]
I expected
to find you long dead,
but you seem to have
more pluck than I thought.
[Shirou] Why are you here?
[grunts]
Oh, I was just
in the neighborhood.
So, how is your body feeling?
My arrows should
have severed all
of Caster's magic threads.
[gasps]
Yeah, I'm okay.
‐ [Archer] Good for you.
‐ [gasps]
As much as I'd like to say,
"Do whatever the hell you want,"
I suggest you stay
where you are for now.
Try not to move
without thinking first.
[groans]
How did the Archer get through?
Dammit!
That Assassin!
What the hell
is he doing out there?
You see?
She will take the full force
of her anger out on you.
A woman's fury
is a difficult thing to control.
Ah, damn.
I think that things are about
to get rather violent.
[Kalafina's "Believe"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[chorus singing
in foreign language]
♪♪ ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]